Now, how do you feel if you see a little baby lamb, a few days old, you're drawn to it,
aren't you? What about little baby kittens, just a few days old? You want to hug them?
Or what about baby birds with their mouths wide open waiting for the mother to feed them?
They warm your heart. But now, what if you saw a hungry lion stalking that little lamb?
Or a poisonous snake slithering closer to those little baby kittens?
Or a bird catcher with a net sneaking up on those baby birds?
Probably your heart would move you to try to do something to save those innocent, defenseless baby animals from the predator.
Well, that illustrates how we feel when we see Satan, the lion, Satan, the serpent, Satan, the bird catcher,
moving in on and trying to devour our young people. And that definitely is what Satan and the demons are trying to do.
In fact, a brother many years ago, I never forgot this point in his talk, he said,
at the flood, the half-breed children of the demons were killed, and their demon fathers were helpless, couldn't do anything.
Could it be, the brother said, that the demons are now trying to get even?
They lost their children, they're trying to destroy our children.
Well, at least we can say it's food for thought, but unquestionably, Satan and the demons are after our young people.
But now here's our question, although parents have the primary responsibility to help their children,
what can we, as other adults, do to try to reach out and help the young ones in our congregation?
Well, let's talk about two things we can do.
Number one, periodically, take time to really talk with them, and try to befriend these young ones.
We don't want to be like the elder, who always spoke to the teenager, Tim, Tim, how are you doing today?
But the elder is very busy, he kept walking.
One day, Tim stopped the elder, he said, Brother Elder, you always ask me how I'm doing, but you never wait to get my answer?
He was very embarrassed. He made sure that never happened again, he would stop, really talk to Tim, they developed a close friendship.
And if they're little ones, we may need to stoop, bend or sit down in order to get down on their level.
See, a lot of these young ones live in a world of knees and swinging purses, but we can get down on their level, talk to them, befriend them.
And when you think of that, as shown here in this beautiful picture, it even makes you think of Jehovah stooping down to help us.
That's what Psalm 113, 6 and 7 says, that he stoops down to lift this out of the ash pit.
But here's the second thing that we can do to try to help our young ones, try to help them to have spiritual goals.
Now, of course, we support the parents in doing this. And again, that fits right in, we're never too busy for our young ones.
And try to steer them towards spiritual goals. Jesus said a wonderful example was never too busy for young ones.
Please open up to the beautiful account in Mark chapter 10.
We love this account. Mark chapter 10 verse 13, people now began bringing him young children for him to touch them.
But the disciples reprimanded them. At seeing this, Jesus was indignant and said to them, let the young children come to me.
Do not try to stop them for the kingdom of God belongs to such ones. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a young child will by no means enter into it.
And he took the children into his arms, began blessing them, laying his hands on them.
Now, the watchtower commented that perhaps the disciples thought Jesus surely didn't want to be bothered by children during the crucial weeks right before his death, but how wrong they were.
And you can be sure Jesus blessing on them, motivated them toward spiritual goals. And that's what we want to do.
We want our young ones to think about spiritual goals, like the little eight-year-old boy that talked to the circuit overseer about his goals.
Now, here's what he said. He said, first, I would like to be baptized. Then I would like to help in the congregation serving with a sound and handling microphones, being an attendant, helping with a literature, reading at watchtower studies.
Then I would like to be a ministerial servant, them knelder. I would also like to be a pioneer and go to pioneer school. Then I would like to go to Bethel and be a circuit overseer.
Well, he had it all lined up, didn't he? Spiritual goals. And we want to support the parents in trying to steer these young ones, taking time with them towards spiritual goals.
Now, in the same vein, perhaps we can support the parents in helping these young ones to see the dangers of pursuing higher education in Satan's system.
See, often there's great exposure to unscriptual ideas, philosophies, and theories.
It makes us think of the warning in Colossians 2 and verse 8 starts out with the two words, look out. That means danger. Be careful. Look out.
That no one takes you captive by means of the philosophy and empty deception according to human tradition.
There's often often also a lot of exposure to ungodly conduct in the case of ones who pursue higher education in Satan's world.
Now, it's true, not all who pursue higher education in Satan's world experience those pitfalls. But is it a risk worth taking?
That's what we want to get our young ones to think about. I like to use the illustration of a school of hungry sharks.
Now, let's say you know the statistics are that if ten people try to swim through this school of hungry sharks, eight of them will make it. Only two will be eaten by the sharks.
Now, would you reason, well, that's very good survival rate? 80% survival? I think I can do it. I think I could swim through this school of sharks. You probably wouldn't take that risk, would you?
Well, what's the point? Well, for those who try to swim through and survive spiritually, the figurative school of hungry sharks of higher education, probably the survival rate is not as good as in our illustration.
But in contrast, we want our young ones and support their parents in this regard to set spiritual goals such as pioneering.
They can accomplish so much more than pursuing anything in Satan's world. Now, let's illustrate this point. I'd like you to imagine the world's best heart surgeon.
Now, let's say this man spent ten years going to universities, medical schools, another 20 years practicing his profession, learning from other heart surgeons.
What's the most he can hope to accomplish? Perhaps extend the lives of some of his patients for a few years. Eventually, every one of his patients will die.
In fact, eventually, the heart surgeon himself will die. You can go out to the cemetery, you can read tombstones, you can read the names of very excellent doctors buried in the cemetery.
So with all that education, see what one can accomplish is very limited. But now, if you pursue the ministry, the spiritual goal of full-time service, what can you accomplish?
Well, first Timothy 416, you can save yourself and those who listen to you and we're talking about everlasting life. Well, there are two things we can do.
Support the parents in trying to be a friend of these young ones and direct them towards spiritual things. At 1 Peter 5.8, Satan is likened to a hungry lion.
Genesis 3, he's depicted as a cunning serpent. At Psalm 91.3, a sneaky bird catcher. And he's really especially after our young people, he loves to gobble them down.
Like a tasty morsel. But may we support the parents and trying to keep this from happening? See, the parents need help. They need support. They need our help helping regarding these young ones and our congregation. And Proverbs 327 tells us,
do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it, if it is within your power to help.